[Learn] Automation API Pathway (#910)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/learn/embedding-pulumi/getting-started/index.md

---
title: "Getting Started"
layout: topic
date: 2021-12-15
draft: false
description: |
    Set up your local system to start building a working example of the
    Automation API.
meta_desc: |
    Set up your local system to start building a working example of the
    Automation API.
index: 0
estimated_time: 5
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - laura-santamaria
tags:
    - learn
block_external_search_index: false
---

Often when scaling up from an idea, an organization goes through a period of time where the engineering org is growing so fast that everyone is spinning up a lot of individual architectures in an attempt to build quickly. Eventually, the team reaches the point that someone needs to own all of the infrastructure and standard use cases have appeared. Often, once an organization understands its use cases for infrastructure, it starts to explore creating platforms for people to build on (versus everyone inventing infrastructure from scratch). And thus a platform engineering team, either only in duties or both in duties and name, is born.

> With all of that in mind, let's imagine that the Pulumipus Boba Tea Shop, our company from the Fundamentals learning path, has been doing so well that we can expand to jump into other markets like selling tea blends or selling its boba tea automation application to other tea shops. We're now part of a cloud engineering platform team, and we need to make it easy for developers building our applications to request the infrastructure that they need through some sort of API or perhaps a website.

Reviewer: I would say we are now part of a platform engineering team and there are many developers from different business units building separate applications and this platform team's job is to build an interface/website/portal for people to request infrastructure

> This is exactly where Pulumi's Automation API can come in handy. The Automation API lets you embed Pulumi into applications and interfaces to empower others to get the infrastructure they need in the way you expect them to use it. You can also use it to work with CI/CD systems, chatops systems, monitoring systems, gitops systems, or anything else where you want to integrate the automation of the state of your infrastructure. For example, if you want your monitoring system to spin up additional spot instances or tear down unused spot instances based on traffic patterns without needing human interaction, you can use the Automation API to let alerts trigger infrastructure changes (perhaps with some policy as code to provide some guardrails to prevent the automation from tearing down everything or running up your bill).

Author: The intent with our example for the pathway is to embed the Automation API program into a pipeline. You can use CI/CD to execute Pulumi programs, but under the hood my understanding is those integrations are Automation API that we've used to make it easier to integrate with those systems.

My intent here isn't to add every single use case, but rather to spark the imagination as the audience needs to think outside the box of the CLI. There's other pages and documents that lay out use cases. I don't want to go into the weeds.

In our example scenario, let's pretend that we're starting to find development teams scaling across datacenters, regions, or zones. We're having trouble knowing what infrastructure is getting used, and we'd like to automatically stand up a small set of serverless functions for every region we enter so new infrastructure reports back to a central dashboard. Since we want this infrastructure to deploy without any human action, we can't use a standard CLI-based workflow like we would everywhere else. We're going to use the Automation API to integrate the creation of that serverless function infrastructure into every pipeline that stands up something new. For our function's output, we're going to gather bits of data related to time like timezones, time drift, and more. We'll set up a small monitoring function that reports this data on deployment without needing a lot of time, memory, or space to run (and therefore is cheap to use).

Let's get started!

## Setting up

> We're going to automate the use of Pulumi's CLI so we can use it in pipelines, APIs, and web interfaces. For the Pulumi program we're using to test our automation, we'll get to some sample code in a moment. If you'd like to use your own Pulumi program, however, go for it!

Reviewer 2: What would you think of tweaking this phrasing a bit to play up the fact that we're running Pulumi programmatically ? (I ask because right now, it sounds a bit too much like we'll just be "shelling out" to Pulumi.)

```suggestion
We're going to embed Pulumi in a Python program so we can use it in pipelines, APIs, and web interfaces. For the Pulumi program we're using to test our automation, we'll get to some sample code in a moment. If you'd like to use your own Pulumi program, however, go for it!
```

Just like in all of our other pathways, we're going to create a new Pulumi project to hold our code. You could keep working in whatever project that you already have set up, but it will get a bit messy if you do. Create a new directory called `learn-auto-api`. We'll use this directory name in the rest of this pathway. If you name it something different, don't forget to change the value in the code!

> Add `api` and `infra` directories in your project, and run `pulumi new` with the `python` template in each one. If you need a refresher on how to do so, head to [Pulumi Fundamentals]({{< relref "/learn/pulumi-fundamentals" >}}). Add a directory called `time` inside your `api` directory to hold the actual application. Your project directory now should match this file tree:

Reviewer 2: Should be `aws-python`?

```suggestion
Add `api` and `infra` directories in your project, and run `pulumi new` with the `aws-python` template in each one. If you need a refresher on how to do so, head to [Pulumi Fundamentals]({{< relref "/learn/pulumi-fundamentals" >}}). Add a directory called `time` inside your `api` directory to hold the actual application. Your project directory now should match this file tree:
```

```
learn-auto-api/
    api/
        time/
        venv/
        .gitignore
        __main__.py
        Pulumi.yaml
        requirements.txt
    infra/
        venv/
        .gitignore
        __main__.py
        Pulumi.yaml
        requirements.txt
```

## Making a local example

For our application to test the eventual API, we're going to use the a Lambda on AWS, so we'll use the AWS provider. Put the following code in a file called `time_me.py` in the `time` directory:

{{< code-filename file="learn-auto-api/api/time/time_me.py" >}}

```python {.line-numbers}
from os import environ
from time import localtime

def timezone(event, context):
    return localtime(0).tm_zone

def location(event, context):
    return environ['AWS_REGION']

> ```

Reviewer 2: ☝️ I see a handful of places where it looks like we have multiple successive empty lines, so you might want to go through and tidy those up as well.

> ```

Author: Ah! Those are actually PEP8 style :) https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/#blank-lines

{{< /code-filename >}}

This code will return a bit of information when run as a serverless function.

Next, let's add a Pulumi program that deploys this function. Add the following code in a file called `burner.py` in the `api` directory, and then we'll talk about what exactly this file is doing:

{{< code-filename file="learn-auto-api/api/burner.py" >}}

```python {.line-numbers}
from pulumi import AssetArchive, Config, export, FileArchive, ResourceOptions
from pulumi_aws import iam, lambda_

> 

Author: Rejecting per PEP8
